README.md, before:

# Butz Sleeper Fantasy Football Draft Aid

- [Butz Sleeper Fantasy Football Draft Aid](#butz-sleeper-fantasy-football-draft-aid)
  - [Available Scripts](#available-scripts)
      - [`npm run setup`](#npm-run-setup)
      - [`npm run server`](#npm-run-server)
      - [`npm run site`](#npm-run-site)
  - [Backend](#backend)
    - [Backend Scripts](#backend-scripts)
      - [`npm start`](#npm-start)
      - [`npm run dev`](#npm-run-dev)
    - [Endpoints](#endpoints)
      - [**Hello World**:](#hello-world)
      - [**Rankings**:](#rankings)
      - [**Set Up Positions Rankings**](#set-up-positions-rankings)
      - [**Fetch All Players**](#fetch-all-players)
  - [Frontend](#frontend)
    - [Frontend Scripts](#frontend-scripts)
      - [`npm start`](#npm-start-1)
- [Todo List](#todo-list)

This project has a front end written in React and a backend written using Node. The front end is hosted on Netlify and the backend server is hosted on Heroku with a MongoDB database. The purpose of it is to be a live Fantasy Football Draft guide that updates as your live draft is going on. 

**MongoDB**

Stores the following information
- Every single NFL player and player information (provided by sleeper [here](https://docs.sleeper.app/#fetch-all-players))
- Collections for individual position rankings. This is split up by (QB, RB, WR, TE, Kicker, Defense/Special Teams and Top 200)

## Available Scripts

To get the project up and running run the following

#### `npm run setup`

This installs all packages for both the React frontend and Node backend

#### `npm run server`

This starts up the Node server.js file to connect to MongoDb as well as starts up the 4 endpoints. You will need a MongoDb user setup to be able to fetch, write, delete and update data in the databse.

#### `npm run site`

This starts up the React frontend of the application. If the Node backend is not running, or if you don't have a Mongodb connection you will need to set that up.

## Backend

### Backend Scripts

#### `npm start`

Starts the backend of the server using Node. No automatic restarting of the server happens with this command.

#### `npm run dev`

Used for running the server locally with Nodemon. Any saves to files will automatically restart the server.

This app runs on: [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000) 

### Endpoints

#### **Hello World**: 

`http://localhost:8000/helloWorld` 

This is used to test and make sure the appliation is up and running. 

#### **Rankings**: 


**KTC**

Type of request: POST

URL: `http://localhost:8000/rankings` 

JSON Body: ```{
    "rankings": "ktc"
}```

**Fantasy Footballers**

Type of request: POST

URL: `http://localhost:8000/rankings` 

JSON Body: ```{
    "rankings": "ffballers",
    "position": "QB/RB/WR/TE/DST/K/TOP200"
}```

#### **Set Up Positions Rankings** 

`http://localhost:8000/setUpPositions`

Information here

#### **Fetch All Players** 

`http://localhost:8000/fetchAllPlayers` 

Uses sleeper's `players/nfl` endpoint to fetch all NFL player data and store it in a MongoDB collection. There are about 6800 records so far.

## Frontend

### Frontend Scripts

#### `npm start`

Starts the front end of the application

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in your browser. 

The page will reload when you make changes. 

You may also see any lint errors in the console.

# Todo List
- ~~Update Readme.md~~
- ~~Deploy backend to heroku~~ (done 7//10) 
  - ~~Create helper function for url endpoints (Local vs Prod)~~ (Done 7/12)
  - ~~Look into bucket storage for json files~~ (No longer needed, storing data in Mongodb Collection)
    - ~~Refactor to package up .csv files or store positions on tables in mongodb~~ (Done 7/12)
- Use Chakra UI to improve the UI
  - Update Color scheme once layout is finalized
- Set max height & scroll bars for sections
- ~~Figure out how to filter Kickers (No Sleeper ID for them in DB)~~
- ~~Add ability to search by sleeper draft ID~~
  - ~~Textbox asking for draft id, then loads page and rankings~~
- Add top 200 rankings from another similar spot
  - Use PDF OCR reader to import other Top 200 rankings & tiers
  - https://openbase.com/js/node-tesseract-ocr
- ~~Fetch players for my team (By user ID)~~
- ~~Make 3 columns responsive for mobile~~
- FetchAllPlayers Optimization to insert only active players
- FetchAllPlayers Optimization to insert bulk json record vs loop
- Get off using lodash to flatten the object
- Look into insertion of duplicate fields in Mongodb
  - //https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24122981/how-to-stop-insertion-of-duplicate-documents-in-a-mongodb-collection
- Bugs
  - Fix fetch all players to add Defenses
    - Position: Def
    - Player_id: Tennessee Titans = TEN, Washington Commanders = WAS... etc
  - ~~Ken/Kenneth Walker bug (Not filtering name out)~~

Commit message:

Reset PlayerId Array on new submission (#18)
* Reset Playerid Array on new submission

* cleaning up to 1 line

README.md, after:

# Butz Sleeper Fantasy Football Draft Aid

- [Butz Sleeper Fantasy Football Draft Aid](#butz-sleeper-fantasy-football-draft-aid)
  - [Available Scripts](#available-scripts)
      - [`npm run setup`](#npm-run-setup)
      - [`npm run server`](#npm-run-server)
      - [`npm run site`](#npm-run-site)
  - [Backend](#backend)
    - [Backend Scripts](#backend-scripts)
      - [`npm start`](#npm-start)
      - [`npm run dev`](#npm-run-dev)
    - [Endpoints](#endpoints)
      - [**Hello World**:](#hello-world)
      - [**Rankings**:](#rankings)
      - [**Set Up Positions Rankings**](#set-up-positions-rankings)
      - [**Fetch All Players**](#fetch-all-players)
  - [Frontend](#frontend)
    - [Frontend Scripts](#frontend-scripts)
      - [`npm start`](#npm-start-1)
- [Todo List](#todo-list)

This project has a front end written in React and a backend written using Node. The front end is hosted on Netlify and the backend server is hosted on Heroku with a MongoDB database. The purpose of it is to be a live Fantasy Football Draft guide that updates as your live draft is going on. 

**MongoDB**

Stores the following information
- Every single NFL player and player information (provided by sleeper [here](https://docs.sleeper.app/#fetch-all-players))
- Collections for individual position rankings. This is split up by (QB, RB, WR, TE, Kicker, Defense/Special Teams and Top 200)

## Available Scripts

To get the project up and running run the following

#### `npm run setup`

This installs all packages for both the React frontend and Node backend

#### `npm run server`

This starts up the Node server.js file to connect to MongoDb as well as starts up the 4 endpoints. You will need a MongoDb user setup to be able to fetch, write, delete and update data in the databse.

#### `npm run site`

This starts up the React frontend of the application. If the Node backend is not running, or if you don't have a Mongodb connection you will need to set that up.

## Backend

### Backend Scripts

#### `npm start`

Starts the backend of the server using Node. No automatic restarting of the server happens with this command.

#### `npm run dev`

Used for running the server locally with Nodemon. Any saves to files will automatically restart the server.

This app runs on: [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000) 

### Endpoints

#### **Hello World**: 

`http://localhost:8000/helloWorld` 

This is used to test and make sure the appliation is up and running. 

#### **Rankings**: 


**KTC**

Type of request: POST

URL: `http://localhost:8000/rankings` 

JSON Body: ```{
    "rankings": "ktc"
}```

**Fantasy Footballers**

Type of request: POST

URL: `http://localhost:8000/rankings` 

JSON Body: ```{
    "rankings": "ffballers",
    "position": "QB/RB/WR/TE/DST/K/TOP200"
}```

#### **Set Up Positions Rankings** 

`http://localhost:8000/setUpPositions`

Information here

#### **Fetch All Players** 

`http://localhost:8000/fetchAllPlayers` 

Uses sleeper's `players/nfl` endpoint to fetch all NFL player data and store it in a MongoDB collection. There are about 6800 records so far.

## Frontend

### Frontend Scripts

#### `npm start`

Starts the front end of the application

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in your browser. 

The page will reload when you make changes. 

You may also see any lint errors in the console.

# Todo List
- ~~Update Readme.md~~
- ~~Deploy backend to heroku~~ (done 7//10) 
  - ~~Create helper function for url endpoints (Local vs Prod)~~ (Done 7/12)
  - ~~Look into bucket storage for json files~~ (No longer needed, storing data in Mongodb Collection)
    - ~~Refactor to package up .csv files or store positions on tables in mongodb~~ (Done 7/12)
- Use Chakra UI to improve the UI
  - Update Color scheme once layout is finalized
- Set max height & scroll bars for sections
- ~~Add "reset" function which will be called to reset the page before fetching draft data~~
- ~~Figure out how to filter Kickers (No Sleeper ID for them in DB)~~
- ~~Add ability to search by sleeper draft ID~~
  - ~~Textbox asking for draft id, then loads page and rankings~~
- Add top 200 rankings from another similar spot
  - Use PDF OCR reader to import other Top 200 rankings & tiers
  - https://openbase.com/js/node-tesseract-ocr
- ~~Fetch players for my team (By user ID)~~
- ~~Make 3 columns responsive for mobile~~
- FetchAllPlayers Optimization to insert only active players
- FetchAllPlayers Optimization to insert bulk json record vs loop
- Get off using lodash to flatten the object
- Look into insertion of duplicate fields in Mongodb
  - //https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24122981/how-to-stop-insertion-of-duplicate-documents-in-a-mongodb-collection
- Bugs
  - Fix fetch all players to add Defenses
    - Position: Def
    - Player_id: Tennessee Titans = TEN, Washington Commanders = WAS... etc
  - ~~Ken/Kenneth Walker bug (Not filtering name out)~~
